aigpk docs (#2100)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: ai-gateway/examples/multi-key-failover.mdx

---
title: Multi-Key Failover
description: Configure multiple provider keys for automatic failover across rate limits and errors.
---

Configure multiple provider keys per provider to automatically failover when keys hit rate limits or encounter errors. This works with both [attached provider keys](/ai-gateway/guides/attaching-provider-keys) (recommended) and Traffic Policy keys (custom providers only).

<Tip>

> For standard providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, etc.), use [attached provider keys](/ai-gateway/guides/attaching-provider-keys)—attach multiple keys to your AI Gateway API Key and the most recently attached key is tried first, falling back to older keys on failure. Traffic Policy `api_keys` is deprecated for standard providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For standard providers (such as OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google), use [attached provider keys](/ai-gateway/guides/attaching-provider-keys): attach multiple keys to your AI Gateway API Key and the most recently attached key is tried first, falling back to older keys on failure. Traffic Policy `api_keys` is deprecated for standard providers.
```

## See also

- [Multi-Provider Failover](/ai-gateway/examples/multi-provider-failover) - Failover across providers
- [Attaching Provider Keys](/ai-gateway/guides/attaching-provider-keys) - Attach and manage provider keys on your AI Gateway API Key
- [Managing Provider API Keys](/ai-gateway/guides/managing-provider-keys) - Key rotation and secrets for custom providers

> - [Configuring Providers](/ai-gateway/guides/configuring-providers) - Full provider setup

Reviewer: nit: colon-separated list items to match our standard pattern

```suggestion
- [Attaching Provider Keys](/ai-gateway/guides/attaching-provider-keys): Attach and manage provider keys on your AI Gateway API Key
- [Managing Provider API Keys](/ai-gateway/guides/managing-provider-keys): Key rotation and secrets for custom providers
- [Configuring Providers](/ai-gateway/guides/configuring-providers): Full provider setup
```
